- Peak Physical Form
While untransformed, Tateki can operate in the upper bounds of peak human ability due to his synchronization with the Mugen Core, displaying high endurance, strength, and agility. He is not superhuman however, and is still very much within the bounds of mundane human ability.
 
- Martial Arts Knowledge
Tateki is a practitioner of mixed martial arts, it having been his only hobby for most of his life. He is very skilled but not professionally trained, and his style is mostly based around dodges and counterattacks.

- Machine Heart
Mugen Runner THE ONE is powered by the Machine Heart system, which utilises a technomagical system attached to his soul, which is used to power the frame. It is also present when Tateki is untransformed, being the only cybernetic in his body. When heavily wounded, Tateki can use this system to heal his body by converting his soul's energy into matter, though the process is slow. It can take hours for Tateki to recover from minor wounds, and days to weeks for major wounds. In addition, he is forced into a coma during this process. Wounds sustained while transformed generally transfer to his untransformed state, but are partially healed at the cost of some of his energy. The same works in reverse. Given enough time, he can recover from a wound as serious as a lost limb, but this can take months.
 
- Mugen Core
The Mugen Core is a small device, roughly triple the size of the average belt buckle, that allows Tateki to transform into Mugen Runner THE ONE. It draws power from his Machine Heart to drive its reactor, and utilizes a highly advanced technomancy process to achieve the transformation.
The device is comprised of a primary housing with a circular depression in the centre. The inside of the reactor is visible in the centre of the depression, being the same void-black as Mugen Runner THE ONE's eyes. Each side of the Core has a small indent that allows one to insert an Infinity Spark and rotate it 180 degrees. Directly adjacent to the centre of the Core on either side, there is plating that can split horizontally and open vertically, revealing a small circular holo-projector, one on each side. On the top of the device is one last slot for an Infinity Spark, though this one can't be rotated.
Initial activation is achieved by manifesting the Mugen Core from his soul, where it is stored as a spiritual construct. It manifests as a belt around his waist, with the Core itself at the front as the belt buckle. By announcing the vocal command "IGNITE", the Core will respond with "THE ONE" and the transformation will be initiated into Mugen Runner THE ONE. Said transformation takes the appearance of a bolt of lightning striking Tateki, even while indoors or underground. Once the flash and smoke of the lightning bolt passes, the transformation is revealed to be complete. The lightning bolt protects Mugen Runner THE ONE during the transformation, and it will hurt anyone who is too close when it strikes (though not as violently as a real lightning bolt).
To use an Infinity Spark, Mugen Runner THE ONE simply inserts it into either side of the Mugen Core and turns it 180 degrees. Simply inserting it into the Mugen Core will have the Core announce its name, which indicates that the Spark has been accepted and he is able to activate it. Once it has been turned 180 degrees, the Core announces "IGNITION" and the Spark is activated. The holo-projector cover on the side of the activated Spark will then open, and the holo-projector will display the symbol and colour of the Infinity Spark that was utilized.
 
- Infinity Sparks
Infinity Sparks are concentrated soul data that allow Mugen Runner THE ONE to utilize abilities, summon tools/weapons, and change his form. The average Infinity Spark takes the form of a tiny hand-held pyramid-structure set on a diamond prism base, with a rectangular prism handle set on the opposite side of the base. The active end will be coloured in the colour of its ability, while ones that are grey have no ability and are called Ember Sparks.
While Mugen Runner THE ONE is in combat, an Ember Spark can collect soul data from the opponent and duplicate their main ability, which transforms it into a proper Infinity Spark. Ember Sparks are inserted into the top of the Mugen Core, and while in this position, they collect soul data from Mugen Runner THE ONE's current opponent. Typically, it takes around five to ten minutes of fighting to develop an Ember Spark into an Infinity Spark. Infinity Sparks are inserted into either side of the Mugen Core to activate their ability or tool. If an Infinity Spark is inserted into the Ember Spark port, it will overwrite its currently existing soul data.
To change his form, Mugen Runner THE ONE has to use two Infinity Sparks that have a high affinity for each other at the same time. This affinity stems from a reflection of the actual entities that the soul data was copied from, such as being fast friends or romantic partners. If Mugen Runner THE ONE himself has a special affinity for a certain Infinity Spark, he can initiate a form change without a second one. These form changes combine the powers of the two Infinity Sparks, and the higher the affinity they have with each other, the more powerful the form is. In the case of a single-Spark form change, its simply a more powerful and flexible version of the base Infinity Spark's ability.
Mugen Runner THE ONE's Infinity Sparks are stored in his soul, in a similar spiritual construct configuration to the Mugen Core. He can manifest them at will. He currently possesses the Infinity Sparks listed below, along with 3 Ember Sparks.
 
- Mugen Runner THE ONE
By summoning the Mugen Core from within himself with his willpower, Tateki can transform into Mugen Runner THE ONE.
In this form, he is transformed into a machine, his internals being converted to cybernetics and his flesh being transmuted into a skin-like substance called Metal Skin. Over this, Super Magidaptive Alloy armour is affixed. The head has two large round black viewports on the front and a breathing apparatus-like mask over the mouth section. On the side of the helmet are two vents, and the brow is resplendent with a v-fin. Behind each prong are two more similar antennae pointing up and backwards over the helmet. Tracing across his body are several light channels, which are the same light-absorbing black as his eyes. Affixed securely to the armour around the neck is a bright red scarf, which has two long tails that lie over both shoulders.
In this base form, Mugen Runner THE ONE has superhuman reaction times, can run at 30m/s, leap 10m into the air, and exert 3 tons of force.
 
- CUTTER
By activating the CUTTER Infinity Spark, Mugen Runner THE ONE gains access to the Mugen Cutter.
Visually, it resembles a somewhat advanced-looking yet simple hand-and-a-half sword. Being composed of Super Magidaptive Alloy, it is extremely sharp and doesn't lose its edge, having the sharpness to cleave steel. Its Final THE ONE is the "MUGEN SLASH".
Once engaged, the blade is charged with power. Mugen Runner THE ONE then unleashes a mighty slash, doing so extends the charged energy out of the blade to quadruple its length and double its cutting power, along with damaging the enemy with the energy itself.
 
- SHOOTER
By activating the SHOOTER Infinity Spark, Mugen Runner THE ONE gains access to the Mugen Shooter.
Visually, it resembles a high-tech, bulky handgun. It fires magic blasts at a rapid rate of fire, but they're rather low-power, only causing mild injury to a regular Human target with a single shot. Several shots are required to actually kill someone with it, but it makes up for this but not requiring a cooldown or reload. Its finisher is the "MUGEN CANNON".
Once engaged, the Shooter is charged with power. It then unleashes a mighty beam that lasts for 5 seconds and exerts the force of an anti-tank weapon.
 
- BUSTER
By activating the BUSTER Infinity Spark, Mugen Runner THE ONE can utilize the Mugen Buster ability.
Once activated, Mugen Runner THE ONE sacrifices speed for sheer physical power. While active, Mugen Runner THE ONE can run at a max speed of 20m/s, exert 75 tons of force, and endure the same in kind. Speed is hampered by being physically weighed down due to conversion of energy to extra technomuscle mass. Its Final THE ONE is the "MUGEN PUNCH".
Once engaged, the fist is charged with power. Mugen Runner THE ONE then unleashes an almighty punch, with several times his normal strength.
 
- DASHER
By activating the DASHER Infinity Spark, Mugen Runner THE ONE can utilize the Mugen Dasher ability.
Once activated, Mugen Runner THE ONE sacrifices physical power for sheer speed. While active, Mugen Runner THE ONE can run at a max speed of 150m/s, exert 5 ton of force, and endure the same in kind. Strength is hampered by redirecting energy from any given exerted blow to the Machine Heart utilising a technomagical process, so as to not rip apart the frame. Its Final THE ONE is the "MUGEN KICK".
Once engaged, the leg is charged with power. Mugen Runner THE ONE then unleashes an almighty kick, with several times his normal strength.
 
- Final THE ONE
By rotating an activated Infinity Spark 180 degrees, Mugen Runner THE ONE can initiate a Final THE ONE. These attacks utilize most of his power and weaken him for five minutes after use. If too many are used consecutively, he will collapse from the strain.
